‎In the daytime, I'm Marinette.
‎Just a normal girl with a normal life.
‎But there's something about me
‎that no one knows yet.
‎Because I have a secret.
‎♪ Miraculous! Simply the best! ♪
‎♪ Up to the test when things go wrong! ♪
‎♪ Miraculous! The luckiest! ♪
‎♪ The power of love, always so strong! ♪
‎♪ Miraculous! ♪
‎Don't be bemused, it's just the news!
‎The mayor of Paris
‎will be unveiling
‎the StarTrain at the Gare du Nord.
‎This modern train will travel between
‎France and the UK at record speeds.
‎-Faster than flying by plane!
‎-But how will the train cross the sea
‎-between France and the UK, Marinette?
‎-There's a tunnel under the Channel.
‎Did a superhero do that?
‎No, just regular men.
‎It's amazing how many inventions
‎have been made since I last had an owner.
‎-There's no stopping progress.
‎-There's no stopping you either!
‎-This is going to be a wonderful sweater!
‎-It's a tradition.
‎I always knit my dad a sweater
‎every year for his birthday.
‎I wanted to do something
‎extra special for him,
‎-but I couldn't think of anything.
‎-You'll come up with the perfect idea.
‎-You always do!
‎-I'd better think of it now.
‎'Cause his birthday is today!
‎Oh, come on now.
‎It really is a shame, Roland!
‎It's your son's 40th birthday
‎today and I know how much Tom
‎would love it if you--
‎-Oh!
‎-Was that my grandfather again?
‎-Yes.
‎-So he's definitely not coming then?
‎I did everything I could.
‎It would have made your dad so happy!
‎He doesn't talk openly about his feelings,
‎but I know he's sad
‎he doesn't see his own father any more.
‎It's a shame!
‎-I'd really like to meet him some day too!
‎-He hasn't seen anyone for 20 years.
‎-I know. But why not?
‎-Uh, he's a little old-fashioned
‎in his ways, he is not exactly
‎what you'd call "modern".
‎-But what happened 20 years ago?
‎-Ah, well, it's complicated.
‎If you really want to know more about it,
‎you should probably ask your dad!
‎Hey, Dad! Why hasn't Grandpa
‎left his house in 20 years?
‎Oh! Well, because he's very fond
‎of tradition... and... uh...
‎if you want to know more about it,
‎you should probably ask Grandma.
‎He's always lived in the past.
‎Well, it's complicated.
‎If you really want to know about it,
‎you should ask your dad or your mom.
‎Ugh! OK. Thanks, Grandma. See you tonight!
‎Argh! Seriously,
‎why won't anyone just answer me?
‎I'm thinking
‎you've come up with your idea!
‎You're right. I know
‎what I'm getting Dad for his birthday!
‎I'll get him and his dad
‎back together again!
‎I've found
‎Roland Dupain's address! Let's go!
‎-What are you waiting for?
‎-If I tell him who I am,
‎he won't listen to me, just like with Mom!
‎ What do you want?
‎Uh... I'm... a... friend!
‎I don't have any friends!
‎This won't be easy!
‎ What do you want?
‎Hello, sir! It's the mail lady!
‎Do what you usually do.
‎Throw the mail in the trash!
‎ What do you want?
‎It's for the firefighters' calendar!
‎Ah, toss it in the fire! I hate calendars!
‎There's no use. It's hopeless.
‎Come on. That's not the Marinette
‎I know, giving up so easily!
‎-What do you want?
‎-Your flour's here.
‎Oh, come in! Come in! It's open.
‎Hello! I'm Marinette.
‎Mr Dupain's granddaughter.
‎I was just about to go in myself.
‎I'll bring him the sack.
‎It'll be a nice surprise!
‎-Roland has a granddaughter?
‎-He sure does!
‎-I should probably help you!
‎-No, no! It's... light!
‎Could I borrow your cap?
‎I want to play a prank on Grandpa!
‎Say "Hi" to Roland for me!
‎I'll grab my cap next time I come by!
‎You sure you should be sneaking in,
‎pretending to be someone else?
‎You've never met him.
‎You don't know how he'll react.
‎Well, it's not exactly a lie. After all,
‎I am actually delivering the flour!
‎What really matters is that he comes
‎to Dad's birthday party and they make up!
‎Hide, Tikki!
‎Put the sack down in the usual place,
‎Gilbert!
‎Er... Where's his usual place?
‎-You're not Gilbert!
‎-No, I'm Germaine, his cousin!
‎Hmm. Aren't you a bit young
‎to be delivering flour?
‎I'm an intern.
‎I'm doing a flour delivery internship
‎because someday I want to own
‎my own flour shop!
‎It's good to be ambitious! You can put
‎the sack down now. Have a nice day! Salt!
‎-So you're a baker then, huh?
‎-Are you a delivery girl or a detective?
‎Go on!
‎Put the bag down and be on your way!
‎That oven you have there,
‎it's a '72 Le Panyol, right?
‎It's a rare, wood-fired model.
‎They only made a few 100!
‎-How did you know that?
‎-My daddy... uh, my bready...
‎-bread-history teacher taught us that.
‎-Well, that's new!
‎You need history classes
‎to become a flour-delivery person now?
‎You bet! You have to study for ten years
‎to be a delivery person these days!
‎Good luck with your internship.
‎Put that down and have a good day!
‎That's a weird-looking computer!
‎A computer? In my house?
‎Are you insane? That's a TV!
‎Really? But is it still working?
‎Nope. Turned it on one day, and, pff!
‎-Stopped working!
‎-It may not meet cable standards.
‎We watch everything on the Internet!
‎The Internet is just as crazy as cordless
‎telephones. That's not how it's done!
‎How can sound and pictures
‎go through without any wires?
‎Simple! They're sent in wave form
‎to relay antennas connected to satellites.
‎It's awesome! You can talk and see
‎anyone you want, anywhere in the world.
‎I don't need to speak to anyone!
‎Besides, that's not how it's done!
‎Now put the sack down and leave me alone!
‎I've got work to do!
‎Do you live alone? Do you have any family?
‎Ta, ta, ta!
‎You really are a nosy detective.
‎Don't touch a thing,
‎put the sack down, and leave.
‎-Oh! Nice bread dough!
‎-Hey! No! Don't touch that!
‎-That's not--
‎-Don't worry, I know how it's done!
‎You take the dough and fold it in half,
‎rhythmically, pressing it flat.
‎-Snapping it slightly.
‎It gives it elasticity
‎and develops the gluten,
‎so that it holds together well
‎after it's been baked!
‎You're a schoolgirl reciting a lesson.
‎You don't really know!
‎I do know my stuff!
‎Maybe even better than you, old man.
‎Better than me? Better than me?
‎Better than me?
‎Charlotte? Marie-Louise? Marguerite?
‎Did you hear that? Better than me?
‎Ha, ha, ha! We'll see about that!
‎Get into position.
‎We'll make some bread together!
‎Then we'll see who's the baker
‎and who's only good for delivering flour!
‎See this yeast? It's been grown
‎for over 2,000 years by my family,
‎ever since my indomitable ancestor,
‎Loafamix the Gaul,
‎who made bread in a small Armorican
‎village, fell alongside Vercingetorix.
‎To be precise, he was my great-great-
‎great-great-great-great-great-great-
‎great-great-great-great-great-great-great-
‎-great-great-great-great-grandfather!
‎-Phew!
‎But the Romans won. Paf!
‎And started putting vegetables and cheese
‎on the bread. And now it's pizza!
‎Beurk! Beurk! Beurk!
‎-I like pizza!
‎-You like pizza?
‎-You, Germaine, like pizza?
‎-Yes, I do.
‎Argh! She likes pizza! Argh!
‎But that's not how it's done!
‎You don't put cheese on bread dough!
‎It's just like my son and his wife,
‎who got it into their heads
‎that adding rice to the dough
‎would make the inside of the bread
‎lighter! That's not how it's done!
‎But what if it's yummy?
‎Have you ever tried your son's bread?
‎Ta, ta, ta! No need.
‎I know it's not going to be good!
‎Making bread with rice flour...
‎That's not how it's done!
‎Well, I think it's creative!
‎How?
‎-So, your son's a baker, then?
‎-I don't have a son any more,
‎-not since he betrayed me.
‎-Because he put rice in the bread dough?
‎That's not how it's done!
‎If my bread comes out
‎tasting as good as yours,
‎will you agree to do one thing for me?
‎-Why? What do you want me to do?
‎-Are you a baker or a nosy detective?
‎Ha! Your bread
‎won't be as good as mine anyway!
‎That song... It's the song my son
‎and I used to sing when we were...
‎kneading dough.
‎There's no way you could know that song
‎unless you're... No, that's impossible!
‎-Yes. I am your granddaughter, Marinette.
‎-You're... my granddaughter?
‎Liar! I don't have a granddaughter!
‎Betrayal! Deceit!
‎It's like adding new ingredients to bread!
‎Deceptive! That's not how it's done!
‎Shoo! Get out! Get out! Out with the liar!
‎No! I'm not leaving!
‎Not until you've tasted my bread.
‎-You promised you would.
‎-You want to stay here?
‎-Stay here then!
‎-Whether you like it or not,
‎you are my grandfather!
‎And today is your son's birthday.
‎-Don't you want to see him again?
‎-La, la, la! I can't hear anything!
‎Don't look at me like that! She shouldn't
‎have lied to her... not-grandfather!
‎And her bread... I bet her bread
‎is as terrible as her father's!
‎Hmm. I can smell the bread
‎that's being baked with flames of fury.
‎A perfect recipe for my akumas.
‎Fly away, my little akuma and evilise him!
‎That's not how it's done by the Dupains,
‎the proud descendants of Loafamix!
‎Bakerix, I am Hawk Moth,
‎and I see that you're hungry for power.
‎I am giving you the ability
‎to serve punishments to anyone
‎who doesn't do things
‎like they should be done!
‎Oh! Of course!
‎Would you like a butter croissant
‎or a baguette to go with that?
‎No! In return, I want the Miraculous
‎of Ladybug and Cat Noir,
‎two offenders
‎who don't know how it's done!
‎-So show them!
‎-You can count on me, Hawk Moth!
‎Grandpa?
‎There's no Grandpa! I'm Bakerix!
‎Anyone who doesn't do things
‎the way they should be done
‎will be served my indomitable wrath!
‎Soon, Paris will look like it did
‎before the modern world took over!
‎No! Grandpa!
‎We'll finish the baking later!
‎Tikki, spots on! Yeah!
‎-Why isn't this bus making any noise?
‎-Because it runs on electricity!
‎An electric bus? That's not how it's done!
‎Buses make noise, they run on gas
‎and spew out stinky black smoke!
‎-Away with modern buses!
‎-Aaah!
‎What's all this?
‎There's a flying superbug in Paris now?
‎Yep! Girl and superhero.
‎You gotta get with the time!
‎That's not how it's done!
‎It's up to the police or the army
‎to carry out law enforcement, not you!
‎Just minutes before
‎the unveiling of the StarTrain,
‎I've been told that a Gaul
‎is wreaking havoc in Paris.
‎I'm going to rid Paris of all this
‎modern nonsense, starting with you!
‎Well, technically,
‎I'm not all that modern.
‎-My Miraculous is from ancient times!
‎-We didn't have superheroes in my youth!
‎There will be no superheroes in my Paris!
‎Aaah!
‎Looks like Ladybug's the one unveiling
‎a brand-new method of air transport!
‎Plagg, claws out!
‎-Aaah!
‎-Don't worry, Milady, I'm right here!
‎Thanks, but girls don't always
‎need to be saved by boys!
‎You think I'm a tad old-fashioned.
‎Oh, I've seen worse than you.
‎Just wait till you meet Bakerix!
‎-Thanks, André.
‎-Aaah!
‎-What are you doing?
‎-Filming you.
‎Argh! Telephones are for telephoning,
‎not for filming! That's not how it's done!
‎-Hey! That's censorship!
‎-Just like the good old days!
‎Oh! Oh!
‎An Egyptian pyramid in the Kings' Court?
‎That's not how it's done!
‎A blending of ancient and modern.
‎I like this glass pyramid a lot!
‎It's proof you can be modern
‎and respect the past!
‎Treachery! Treason!
‎We'd better destroy that flask of his!
‎You're right. That's probably
‎where the akuma is, too.
‎You're out of your league!
‎You don't have enough experience!
‎-We're trapped! Cata...
‎-Save your Cataclysm.
‎We're probably gonna need it!
‎Emergency exit!
‎Good eye!
‎What's that?
‎A train that goes under water?
‎Is it a train or a submarine?
‎That's not how it's done!
‎If you want to go to England,
‎you take a boat!
‎Ploosh... ploosh... ploosh...
‎You get seasick!
‎-Whoa!
‎-Ladies and gentlemen,
‎I've got bad news for you.
‎This train is out of service!
‎Aaah!
‎-We've got a train to catch!
‎-Boarding now!
‎Be reasonable now.
‎There are a lot of people on this train.
‎Well, then they'd better get off, because
‎it's on its way to the wrecking yard!
‎Whoa!
‎-You should ask Queen Bee for some help!
‎-We're doing OK for now.
‎But I'll remember that. Thanks, Chloé!
‎Aaah!
‎Not again!
‎Lucky charm!
‎Tomatoes in a bottle? I doubt our friend
‎will take too kindly to this!
‎That's what I'm counting on.
‎In fact, I'm planning to give our friend
‎the least traditional sandwich possible!
‎How about some super-sour candy chews,
‎plus some super-chemical chewing-gum,
‎all packed between two slices
‎of white, industrial bread.
‎Oh, stop it, Ladybug!
‎You're making us all drool!
‎Isn't that right, Bakerix?
‎-I'm not falling for your tricks!
‎-OK, in that case, I'll just add...
‎some tomatoes in a bottle!
‎Now this sandwich will taste like pizza!
‎It'll be so good!
‎That's not how traditional
‎sandwiches are done!
‎-Do your thing, Cat Noir!
‎-Cataclysm!
‎Argh!
‎Aaah!
‎You're blown away by this sandwich,
‎aren't you?
‎That's not how it's done!
‎Well, that's how we do it, anyway!
‎No more evil-doing for you, akuma.
‎Time to de-evilise!
‎Gotcha!
‎Bye-bye, little butterfly.
‎Miraculous Ladybug!
‎-Pound it!
‎My bread! I left some bread baking in
‎the oven! And my granddaughter's there!
‎-It's dangerous!
‎-I'm sure it's under control!
‎I must get home!
‎I'll take him back.
‎I have more time left than you!
‎Thank you, Cat Noir! Bug out!
‎Sure you want to go home
‎on a superhero's back?
‎It's fast, but not very traditional!
‎When bread is at risk,
‎that's how it's done!
‎One day or another,
‎things will change, Ladybug.
‎And front-row seats to your downfall
‎will sell like hotcakes!
‎Marinette! Marinette!
‎Grandpa? Cat Noir? Is everything OK?
‎Er... yes... I was just scared
‎the bread might be overbaked!
‎-It looks all right.
‎-You see? I do know how it's done!
‎Well, if it's all good, I'll be on my way.
‎No! Wait! We need a judge to determine
‎which of these loaves is the best!
‎Uh... the thing is, I'm gonna
‎transform back soon, and... Whoa!
‎You're a real tough cookie,
‎even without your superpowers!
‎Mmm... both these breads are delicious!
‎Do you have any jam, by any chance?
‎ That's not how you taste bread!
‎They're both tasty in different ways.
‎This is more traditional
‎and this has a delicate flavour
‎that makes it special. Can't choose.
‎I'm sorry, but I really do have to get
‎going. Thanks for the tasty snack!
‎Mmm. He's right, this flavour is...
‎is... really good.
‎-I did it the way my Dad does it!
‎-But how?
‎I added rice while you weren't looking.
‎You can never have just one bite!
‎So now I can ask you do that one thing?
‎Will you come home with me?
‎We're celebrating Dad's 40th birthday.
‎I'm sure he'd be so happy to see his dad.
‎You're not a traditional granddaughter,
‎Marinette! And you know what? I like it!
‎Roland?
‎Happy Birthday, Dad!